Board Layout
 
1. 100 x 100 continuous space, origin at top left
2. Sun centered at (50,50) with radius 10
a. Fleets that cross sun are destroyed
3. All planets and comets are placed with four fold symmetry
 
Planets
 
1. Planet = {id, owner, x, y, radius, ships, production}
2. Owner → Player ID (0-3), -1 for neutral
3. Radius → determined by production rate: 1 + ln(production)
4. Production → integer from 1 to 5
a. Each turn, an owned planet generates that many ships
5. Ships → current garrison, starts between 5 and 99 (skewed towards lower values)
 
Planet Types
 
1. Orbiting Planets
a. Planets whose orbital_radius + planet_radius < 50
b. Rotate around the sun at a constant angular velocity (0.025 - 0.05 radians / turn, randomized per game)
c. Use initial_planets + angular_velocity from obs to predict their position
2. Static Planets
a. Planets further from the center do not rotate
3. Map contains 20-40 planets (5-10 symmetric groups of 4)
a. At least 3 groups are guaranteed to be static
b. At least 1 group is guaranteed to be orbiting
 
Home Planets
 
1. One symmetric group is randomly chosen as the starting planets
2. In a 2-player game… players start on diagonally opposite planets (Q1 and Q4)
3. In a 4-player game… each player gets one planet from the group
4. Home planets start with ten ships
 
Fleets
 
1. Fleet = {id, owner, x, y, angle, from_planet_id, ships}
2. Angle: Direction of travel (in radians)
3. Ships: Number of ships in the fleet (does not change during travel)
 
Fleet Speed
 
1. Speed = 1.0 + (maxSpeed - 1.0) * log(ships / log(1000)) ^ 1.5
a. Larger fleets move faster, approaching max speed (default 6.0)
 
Fleet Movement
 
1. Fleets move in a straight line at their computed speed each turn
2. Fleet is removed if
a. Goes out of bounds
b. Crosses sun
c. Collides with any planet (this triggers combat)
3. NOTE: Entire line segment from initial point of fleet in previous frame to new point is checked so it does not jump through Sun, etc.
 
Fleet Launch
 
1. Each turn, your agent returns a list of moves: {from_planet_id, direction_angle, num_ships}
2. You can
a. Only launch from your own planets
b. Cannot launch more ships than the planet currently has
c. The fleet spawns just outside the planet’s radius in a given direction
d. Can issue multiple launches from same or different planets in a single turn
 
Comets
 
1. Fly through the board or in highly elliptical orbits around the sun
2. Spawn in groups of four (one per quadrant) at steps 50, 150, 250, 350, 450
3. Characteristics
a. Radius = 1 (fixed)
b. Production = 1 ship / turn when owned
c. Starting ships = random, minimum of four rolls from 1-99 (all comets in a group share the same starting ship rate)
d. Speed = configurable via cometSpeed (default 4 units / turn)
e. Identification: Check comet_planet_ids in obs to see which planet IDs are comets
i. Otherwise comets are counted in the planets array and follow all normal planet rules
4. comets observation field contains comet group data including
a. Paths (full trajectory of each comet)
b. Path_index (current position along path)
 
Turn Order
 
1. Comet expiration (remove comets that have left the board)
2. Comet spawning (spawn new comet groups at designated steps)
3. Fleet launch (process all player actions, creating new fleets)
4. Production (all owned planets (including comets) generate ships)
5. Fleet movement (move fleets along their headings_
a. Check for out of bounds, sun collision, planet collision
b. Fleets that hit planets are queued for combat
6. Planet rotation and comet movement (orbiting planets revolve, comets advance along their path. Any fleet caught by a moving planet / comet is swept into combat with it)
7. Combat resolution: resolve all queued planet combats)
 
Combat
 
1. All arriving fleets are grouped by owner, ships from same owner are summed
2. Largest attacking force fights the second largest, difference in ships survives
3. If there is surviving attacker
a. If attacker is same owner as the planet, surviving ships are added to garrison
b. If attacker is different owner, surviving ships fight the garrison
i. If attackers exceed the garrison, planet changes ownership and garrison becomes surplus
c. If two attackers tie, all attacking ships are destroyed (no survivors)
 
Scoring
 
1. Game ends when.. 500 turns or one person (or zero) remaining
2. Final score = total ships on owned planets + total ships in owned fleets, highest score wins
 

Observation Reference
 

 
Configuration
 
